docs: add content for LSP5/LSP9/LSP10 (#111)
lukso-network/docs: docs/standards/universal-profile/07-lsp9-vault.md

---
sidebar_label: 'LSP9 - Vault'
sidebar_position: 7
---

# LSP9 - Vault

:::info Standard Document

[LSP9 - Vault](https://github.com/lukso-network/LIPs/blob/main/LSPs/LSP-9-Vault.md)

:::

## Introduction

> Using the KeyManager with the UniversalProfile will enable third parties to execute through your profile given specific permissions, but this will not eliminate the risk of operating maliciously with your data and belongings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the Key Manager with the Universal Profile will enable third parties to execute through your profile given specific permissions, but this will not eliminate the risk of operating maliciously with your data and belongings.
```

> To avoid this risk, third parties should be restricted to talking to a specific smart contract through the UniversalProfile, that has almost the same functionalities and is controlled by the UniversalProfile.

Reviewer: this sentence seems too long imo

This standard uses the **[ERC173](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-173)** standard to provide ownership functions for owning and controlling the implementation contract.

### ERC725X - Generic Executor

This substandard enables the vault to execute a call on any other smart contracts, transfers the blockchains native token, or deploys a new smart contract. Only the owner can execute these operations below.

The operation types available are:

- `CALL`
- `CREATE`
- `CREATE2`
- `DELEGATECALL`
- `STATICCALL`

### ERC725Y - Generic Key-Value Store

This substandard enables the vault to hold arbitrary data through a generic key/value store. It gives flexibility to the contract storage, by enabling to attach any type of information to the contract, and update it easily. 

The keys and values are constructed according to the **[LSP2-ERC725YJSONSchema](../generic-standards/01-lsp2-json-schema.md)** standard.

### LSP1 - UniversalReceiver

> This standard enables the vault to be notified of any incoming transactions either it's a token transfer, vault transfer, information transfer, etc ..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This standard enables the vault to be notified of any incoming transactions either it's a token transfer, vault transfer, information transfer, etc.
```

> This is very useful for vaults where anyone could customize the way his account react to certain tokens by rejecting them or operate a specific call on each token receive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is very useful for vaults where anyone could customize the way her/his account reacts to certain tokens by rejecting them or operate a specific call on each token receive.
```

"token receive" ?

Check **[LSP1-UniversalReceiver](../generic-standards/02-lsp1-universal-receiver.md)** standard for more information.

## Extension

### Interactivity

:::caution

> The implementation of the **UniversalReceiverDelegate** used by the UniversalProfile is different from the one used by the Vault. Check [LSP1UniversalReceiverDelegateVault](../smart-contracts/lsp1-universal-receiver-delegate-vault.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The implementation of the **UniversalReceiverDelegate** used by the Universal Profile is different from the one used by the Vault. Check [LSP1UniversalReceiverDelegateVault](../smart-contracts/lsp1-universal-receiver-delegate-vault.md)
```

:::

> The vault can be notified of incoming assets, information, etc via the **universalReceiver** function. An extension could be added to increase the autonomy of the contract by handling and reacting to transactions that the vault receives.

Reviewer: `vault` or `Vault` ?

Author: changed all to lowercase

Author: changed all to lowercase
